All right,
so let's talk about applying encapsulation
principles to a class.
I've stated in the introduction to this section
that encapsulation means information hiding.
And we've learned that Java provides
different ways to hide class members.
We can hide a member from every consumer
private,
from consumers in other packages,
no modifier package.
Or we can hide members from other packages
but still provide access to classes
in the inheritance tree,
protected.
I've stated that there are two objectives
when hiding information.
The first objective is to protect
the data of a class from unintended or unwelcome changes.
The second objective is to protect upstream
consumers of the class from unintended consequences
causing a minimum of disruption
should be the class need to change.
So with this in mind,
all class and instance variables should be
declared private with access to the data
strictly controlled through methods which
we can examine and verify the requests being made.
This is the convention used by a special
time of class called a bean.
Which I'm sure you probably know about.
So a bean is a Java class which follows
certain programming conventions
that follow the JavaBeans guidelines,
allowing applications and tools to figure
out the bean's properties,
methods,
and events.
For the certification exam,
the convention you need to know
is the one to define a property in a bean class,
supplying public getter and setter methods.
A getter method.
Also known as an accessor method
starts with the prefix get followed
by a property name with camel case and returns
an element of the property's type.
This retrieves the property's data from the bean.
getFirstName for example will get the
value of firstName from the object.
And that would be defined as get in lower case,
first capitalised with an F,
and name capitalised with an N.
A setter method starts with the prefix set
followed by the property name with
camel case and takes as its argument,
a value that the property can be set to.
The method generally doesn't return a value.
So set,
first name would be an example there,
set in lower case,
and the words after first letter capitalised.
A special case for boolean properties allows
the accessor method to be defined
using prefix is instead of get.
For example the acccessor for boolean properties
first for arguments sake may well be isFirst.
Now a property of this is usually an attribute
on the class with the same name
in the setter getter methods,
but this isn't a requirement.
a property could be any attribute or
a code block of some sort.
Most IDA's supply some code generation for you
and intelleJ is simply no exception.
You probably are familiar with it but
we will review it quickly here.
So I'm going to clear the class and encapsulation project.
We will call this one first bean.
There is some sample code.
And what I can do here is I can do an alt insert
to be in the right area of the class file
of this to actually cure.
But we can actually come up here,
code,
generate,
instructor,
you're presented with a list of options,
and you're going to select both options here.
Okay I'm selecting both options
here and clicking on OK.
We've now got a constructor sequence there.
And I can do the same thing for the getters and setters.
Select both,
click okay,
and there's now lbean.
One more insert method here, it should say boolean first,
let's go ahead and also generate
getter and setter,
and there we go.
Now obviously I could have fixed the order up,
and I'll just move the name with
int to the bottom of the file.
But obviously you can see that it does matter
where you curse this position.
But anyway that's intelliJ.
I'm sure that today you'll find that other
ida's you clicked et cetera do a very similar thing,
well actually know that they do.
All right.
So there is our basic Java bean.
So far so good.
Now if we add some code to the class,
the code we're going to add is up here.
So there's the code,
I'll just paste it in.
Now what do you think having done that?
The bean inspector will see its a property of its class.
Would it be my own variable,
or field alias?
Well the bean property is actually field alias,
so what that demonstrates is
regardless of what we name our internal field,
we can give it a public alias.
So the Java bean is one way to
implement encapsulation in Java,
and a standard,
but it is not the only way.
So look for questions on the exam that
expect you to know that encapsulation,
one,
combines data and behaviour into a single class,
two,
hides and protects attributed by making them private,
three,
provides a mechanism that sets attribute
or attributes.
Now this mechanism could be a public constructor,
a public setter method or some other mechanism,
b if the attribute is a variable reference,
you should remember that the underlying object
passed of the reference,
setting it,
could change it.
Making a copy of the object referenced
is a way to ensure the data doesn't change.
Moving on,
four,
provides a mechanism for getting data from the attribute.
This mechanism could be a standard
getter or a public method with any kind of name
that returns the data.
B,
watch out for methods that return variable references
directly remembering that the underlying
object could be ordered by the calling code.
All right so moving on we can
explore some of these additional
encapsulation techniques in the upcoming video.